README.md, before:

# UTF-8 Playground

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/c487e750-85f1-4849-9bd8-f67e44a7c7eb/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/projects/utf8-playground/deploys)

UTF-8 Playground is a web-based tool designed to help developers and enthusiasts explore and experiment with UTF-8 encoding. It provides an interactive interface to visualize and understand how a character is encoded in UTF-8.

Try online: [utf8-playground.netlify.app](https://utf8-playground.netlify.app/)

![screenshot](media/screenshot.png)

## Features

- Visualize bit-level representation of UTF-8 encoded characters.
- User-friendly interface for quick experimentation.
- A mini documentation on UTF-8 encoding.

## Unicode Reference Data

Character names are sourced directly from the latest [UnicodeData.txt](
https://www.unicode.org/Public/UCD/latest/ucd/UnicodeData.txt) file, published by the Unicode Consortium.  

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes. Ensure your code follows the project's coding standards.

## License

Copyright (c) 2025 [Vishnu Haridas](https://iamvishnu.com/)

This software is published under MIT License. See [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for more details

Commit message:

Link to blog post on the brilliant design of UTF-8

README.md, after:

# UTF-8 Playground

[![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/c487e750-85f1-4849-9bd8-f67e44a7c7eb/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/projects/utf8-playground/deploys)

UTF-8 Playground is a web-based tool designed to help developers and enthusiasts explore and experiment with UTF-8 encoding. It provides an interactive interface to visualize and understand how a character is encoded in UTF-8.

Try it online: [utf8-playground.netlify.app](https://utf8-playground.netlify.app/)

Read my detailed blog post that explores the brilliant design of UTF-8 encoding that represents millions of characters while maintaining backward compatibility with ASCII: [UTF-8 is a brilliant design](https://iamvishnu.com/posts/utf8-is-brilliant-design)


![screenshot](media/screenshot.png)

## Features

- Visualize bit-level representation of UTF-8 encoded characters.
- User-friendly interface for quick experimentation.
- A mini documentation on UTF-8 encoding.

## Unicode Reference Data

Character names are sourced directly from the latest [UnicodeData.txt](
https://www.unicode.org/Public/UCD/latest/ucd/UnicodeData.txt) file, published by the Unicode Consortium.  

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes. Ensure your code follows the project's coding standards.

## License

Copyright (c) 2025 [Vishnu Haridas](https://iamvishnu.com/)

This software is published under MIT License. See [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for more details
